Release 24.08rc1 (#7566)
ElementsProject/lightning: CHANGELOG.md

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/).

## [24.08rc1] - 2024-08-12: "TO BE ADDED"

This release named by @Lagrang3.

### Added

>  - protocol: pay can now pay to bolt12 invoices if entry to blinded hop is specified as a short_channel_id (rather than node id). ([#7461])

Reviewer: This is EXPERIMENTAL...

 - protocol: onion messages are now supported by default. ([#7455])
 - protocol: onion messages can now be forwarded by short_channel_id. ([#7455])

>  - offers: automatically add a blinded path from a peer if we have no public channels, so unannounced nodes can have offers too. ([#7461])

Reviewer: This too

>  - offers: we can now self-fetch and self-pay BOLT12 offers and invoices. ([#7461])

Reviewer: this too

 - pay: The pay plugin now checks whether we have enough spendable capacity before computing a route, returning a clear error message if we don't ([#7418])
 - pay: Payments now emit `channel_hint_updated` notification to share inferred balances and observations across multiple payments. ([#7487])
 - pay: The pay plugin now returns better error codes ([#7418])

>  - renepay: prune the network by disabling channels we don't like, eg. very low max_htlc. ([#7403])

Reviewer: EXPERIMENTAL

 - JSON-RPC: `listpeers` `features` array string uses "option_anchors" for feature 22/23, following renaming in BOLT 9. ([#7388])
 - plugins: `bookkeeper` now listens for two custom events: `utxo_deposit` and `utxo_spend`. This allows for 3rd party plugins to send onchain coin events to the `bookkeeper`.  See the new plugins/bkpr/README.md for details on how these work! ([#7258])
 - plugins: Add payment_id parameter to bkpr-listaccountevents to filter events. ([#7536])
 - cln-plugin: add multi options for String and i64 ([#7544])
 - pyln-client: Added a notification mechanism for config changes ([#7289])
 - pyln-client: implement setconfig hook for plugins so you can see changes in `dynamic` options. ([#7289])
 - doc: all examples in the documentation are now generated from running the code, so they are current. ([#7457])

### Changed

 - protocol: We now send current peers our changed gossip (even if they set timestamp_filter otherwise), not just on reconnect. ([#7554])
 - protocol: we now always ask the first peer for all its gossip. ([#7512])
 - connectd: I/O optimizations to significantly speed up larger nodes. ([#7365])

>  - connectd: now should use far less CPU on large nodes. ([#7365])

Reviewer: Maybe move this under Fixed?

 - lightningd: `--list-features-only` now lists "option_anchors" instead of "option_anchors_zero_fee_htlc_tx". ([#7388])
 - updated Bitcoin to v27.1 and Elements to v23.2.1 ([#7436])
 - update libwally to 1.3.0 ([#7480])

### Deprecated

Note: You should always set `allow-deprecated-apis=false` to test for changes.

 - JSON-RPC: `listpeers` `features` array string "option_anchors_zero_fee_htlc_tx": use "option_anchors" (spec renamed it). ([#7388])
 - config: the --experimental-onion-messages option is ignored (on by default). ([#7455])
 - config: the --experimental-anchors option is ignored (on by default since v24.02). ([#7454])
 - pyln-client: `category`, `description` and `long_description` for RPC commands are deprecated now. ([#7520])

### Removed

 - JSON-RPC: `sendonionmessage` (was experimental only, use `injectonionmessage`) ([#7461])
 - JSON-RPC: `autocleaninvoice` command (deprecated v22.11, EOL v24.02) ([#7298])
 - plugins: `estimatefees` returning feerates by name (e.g. "opening"); deprecated in v23.05. ([#7380])

### Fixed

 - protocol: we can now open unannounced channels with LND nodes again. ([#7564])

>  - plugins: pay can now pay a bolt12 invoice even if we, ourselves, are the head of the blinded path within it. ([#7461])

Reviewer: EXPERIMENTAL

>  - renepay: finalized routes have to be processed and ([#7357])

Reviewer: and.. .?

Reviewer: also, renepay is EXPERIMENTAL

Reviewer 2: Also the message was truncated. May be change to this
```suggestion
 - renepay: bugfix, un-reserve routes that have been completed or failed ([#7357])
```

Author: Changed the message as suggested.

>  - config: whitespace at the end of (most) options is now ignored, not complained about. ([#7251])

Reviewer: Move this higher?
